William Bowley
5:59 PM

Rory -> Pill protector

Dhanvin -> Water bottle

William -> Generator
William Bowley
6:05 PM

User interface:

ink display

buzzer 

vibration motor

 

Drop:

LED ring around the cylinder to signal

 

Device:

A water bottle

A pill storage container

A pill alert system

Set-up: Device can be set up locally (on-self)

Backup: USB-C or USB-A port (that you program over) (This is a sunday design review choice)

 

Field charging: Inductive charging (Possible addon -> sunday design)

 

 

Removal water container for cleaning -> No non-water proof electrics

How to make the device not just a cylinder?
William Bowley
6:22 PM

Pill:

Bays

Protection system (If you want you can try to prove if its a requirement) 

Possible: Noise canceling materials??? -> Sunday night

 

Quick Experiment:

-> Compressed powder

-> Rounding over the edges when shaken (Leading to a fine powder) (Like a vibration grinder)

-> Quite loud (You might hear it from other room)

 

Quick Experiment:

-> Pills (Capsules)

-> No visional changes

-> Wasn't as loud, still notable (you might still be able to hear it from other room)

 

Conclusion:

-> Protection system does dual uses: 

Protects the compressed powder pills and also decreases how loud it is notability. 

 
This message has been deleted.
William Bowley
6:32 PM

Generator -> Puts energy into a battery through a battery management chip:

 

Battery powers:

clock, buzzer, vibration motor & ink display (No capactive touch).

 

Basically no energy:

Buttons (

1 -> 2 Button (Left -> Up, right -> Down & together is Confirm)

2 -> 3 Button (Left -> Up, right -> Down, together is confirm)

3 -> 3 buttons(left -> up, right -> down, up & down is confirm, home button)

)

 

Setting the clock time:

1 -> Start on hours (confirm)

2 -> Start on minutes (confirm)

3 -> Start on seconds (confirm) -> (Optional for sunday meeting)

 

HOURS -> MINUTES -> SECONDS

 

Setting alarms for pills:

You home on the interface and than you go either up or down than you select

the alarms and than you can just an alarm with the same selection type as the clock.

 

Cystal Oscillator:

We need an update system for the clock when it drifts. 

On another note we will have to add a usb-c port on the device somewhere. Basically:
"Powered by motion, for most people, most of the time. But most of the time isn't good enough so. We added the usb-c port for programming during assembly and for individuals to use when their ill and cannot move for periods of time."

We'll make it a hidden usb-c port and could even use inductive charging also which would be nice.
William Bowley
6:37 PM

Pill bays -> (Pure Mechanical) (Elderly people tend to like mechanical systems)

 

Optional:

Empty detection -> Copper plating to detect if the bays are empty. Check every time they take the pills. Than alert the user when every sector is empty.

 

Research if copper affects pills -> If so we will need a different detection system.

 

NOTE: Could have the copper outside the bay such that it can detect but not interface with the pills or capsules.

NOTE: Could use Capacitive sensing which doesn't require the plates to be touching.

 

 

 

Constraint: ONLY compressed powder pills & capsules. No liquids in pill storage volumes.

Constraint: All capsules and pills are requirement to not be exposed to direct sunlight
William Bowley
6:46 PM

Water bottle:

Built in straw to drink water from. The cap has to be removed such that you can fill it up with water. The water bottle as a whole has to be removal such that you can clean it preferably in dishwasher

 

kettle water meter feature such that you can tell what your water level -> Tied to volume to show how much is in it.

 

Material such that safe for long term usage (no microplastics perhaps)

 

Optional addon to the product package:

Pipe cleaner to clean the water bottle by hand to support hand washing only.
William Bowley
6:55 PM

Generator:

Takes up the central core of the device. It generates power when it is shaken or by your motion when moving however the amount of energy it produces is quite low when its just your natural motion. Much more energy is produced when it is shaken by on purpose.

 

The generator works by cutting through magnetic fields lines producing power, the faster you cut through them the more energy you make. REF: Faraday's law of induction. 

 

The generator uses two springs such that it becomes a spring mass system (system of equilibrium) so any vibration produces a damped sine wave motion however these springs gives it an "activation energy" where it'll cancel out so small accelerations. However the damped motion should be useful.

 

Need to do:

1 -> Figure out the amount of acceleration the device would experience when in someone backpack or similar such that it can be used for simulation & optimization.

2 -> That a damped motion is better than just having the magnets slide back and forwards without any springs

3 -> Generate the parameters for the generator with either simplistic model or more advanced methods 

4 -> Calculate the efficiency of the prototype generator without any lamination or advanced electromagnetic features (simulation)

5 -> Use the demonstrator model for Spyros as a apparatus for experimentally proving how much energy & how efficient it is at generating power.

 

image

 

Possible way of implementing the water bottle into the device.

Sunday meeting:

Ink-display -> Either a circular or a rectangular display

 

I think the circle one looks nice on the bottom because its geometrically continuous with the bottle above it.

 

Rectangular might look better on the side because a circular one doesn't follow the shape whereas the rectangular one might because its like if you take the normal to a cylinder its basically flat anyways if its big enough like the earth its locally flat.

Assemblies:

Water bottle

Generator + electrics payload

Pill bays / Pill protectors

 

They might come together like this:

 

Generator is connected to electrics by bolts or is one continuous structure. the pill bays are bolted on to the generator/electrics and the water bottle is mechanically attached to everything else.

 

Task -> Figure out how the water bottle will mechanically attach in a way such that elderly people can use it.

 
Meeting ended: at 7:07 PM after 1 hour 55 minutes 44 seconds
William Bowley
7:26 PM

Was writing down the notes from the conversation with Rory, Dhanvin & myself